# A-Geometric-Theory-of-Prechac-Transformations

Here is [a video](https://www.instagram.com/reel/CVszm8EJRTq/) of a great passing pattern executed by Jorge Vilchis and Santiago Malabari. This pattern is fast, it's lively, and it has some really interesting symmetry. Part of what makes this pattern so lively is that the two of them are never throwing at the same time, Jorge is throwing right in between Santi's throws. There's the visual element of the one blue club being passed back and forth. Plus there's a pleasant symmetry that Jorge and Santi are making all the same throws, but staggered in time from each other. The overall effect is similar to a feeling of watching popcorn pop. 

Passing patterns like this, where the two jugglers are doing the same thing but at different times, arise from solo patterns via a process called the Préchac transformation, named after the French juggler and mathematician Christophe Préchac who discovered them in 1999.  This in-progress document aims to investigate the beautiful math that makes these patterns possible, and to answer some natural questions that show up. For jugglers, I have personally found that understanding the theory of these patterns has made it much easier for me to juggle them, I find more joy in watching them, and certainly it is certainly easier for me to generate new patterns designed to my preferences. The basic idea is that you take an individual throw, and share its flight time among multiple jugglers. For mathematicians, I think there is some very satisfying math going on as well. After all, how can you watch [prechac with my friends](https://youtu.be/GC_fLpkLye8) and not want to juggle and understand these patterns?

Some familiarity with solo siteswaps is helpful, but we'll build the theory from the ground up, with a slightly different perspective than usual that will be amenable to where we're going. We'll start with some mathematical preliminaries to aid us in our discussion of these patterns. 

**NOTE** -- The html file is definitely the better way to view this document, PDF only provided for compatibility.
